## Electron Files

These are the files that will be compiled by Vite into a JS bundle, they contain [index.ts](./index.ts) which is the entry point for the Electron app (commonly known as main in documentation).

## Electron Structure

[index.ts](./index.ts) is the entry point for the Electron app, it is responsible for creating the main window and loading the renderer process.

[preload.ts](./preload.ts) is the preload script for the renderer process, it is responsible for exposing the `window` object to the renderer process.

> Electron functions allow us to use NodeJS, to call these functions we must first define them in preload, which is then exposed to the renderer process.
>
> Once preload has the definitions it converts the front end _`window.main.functionName()`_ into an _`ipcRenderer.invoke('function-Name')`_ call, which is then handled by the main process.

[tsconfig.json](./tsconfig.json) is the TypeScript configuration for the Electron app, it is responsible for compiling the TypeScript files into JavaScript.

## [functions](./functions)

This folder contains functions that are used by the Electron app, commonly to interact with the OS directly and not by being called through ipc.

### [initializeApp.ts](./functions/initializeApp.ts)

This function is responsible for initializing the local database and the local settings. It is called by [index.ts](./index.ts) on startup.

## [Handlers](./handlers)

This folder contains handlers that respond to calls made by functions in the renderer process (the front end). They are usually written as:

> ipcMain.handle('channel', (event, args) => { ... })

With the channel being the name of the channel that the function in the renderer process calls.
